## **Research Profile: Elankovan M. Gopal**

 *Note*: This page is incomplete, Please vist after sometime.

###Abstract:
In this work, we study the Kaptiza thermal resistance of <001> and <110> symmetric tilt grain boundaries(STGBs) in silicon. The most frequently occurring grain boundaries(GBs) in multi-crystalline silicon are studied from the literature and 14 bicrystal geometry including Low Angle GBs with <001> axis is modeled using Stillinger-Weber potential. We also studied the Kaptiza resistance and Energetics of  21 bicyrstal models with <110> misorientation axis. Kaptiza resistance and Energetics of all these STGBs are studied briefly to understand the thermal characteristics of STGBs. We employ Non-equilibrium Molecular Dynamics(NEMD) simulation technique to estimate the kaptiza resistance across the grain boundary interfaces. Kapitza resistance of various grain boundaries are examined systematically as a function of misorientation angle. Grain boundary energy and the correlation with Kaptiza resistance is also studied in this work. The role of GBs in thermal heat conduction is crucial, this work would give insights into the design and development of new functional and structural materials for thermal applications. Later in this work we also studied the Phonon wave-packet scattering in 2D structure of Silicene using MD. We observe the amount of scattering is directly proportional to the observed temperature drop at the interface.

##Introduction:

The quest to develop new materials for thermal applications such as jet engine isolation and the need to eliminate the excess heat generated in the micro-electronic semiconductor devices is highly motivating material scientists and researchers for many years. Electrical/electronic behaviour of the functional materials like thin film transistors and solar cells depends on the properties of the polycrystalline silicon that is being used. It is a well known fact today that most of the electrical, mechanical and thermal properties stems form the structure and properties of the grain boundary interfaces. Therefore, having a thorough understanding of the structure and properties of these grain boundaries at atomic level is essential to manipulate the material properties thereby influencing the performance of the functional materials.
Various, both experimental and theoretical studies have been made in the past, trying to understand the structure of the GB interfaces and their influencing properties on materials. Most of the experimental work is carried out in polycrystalline Si, which fails to reveal the characteristics of individual GB interfaces. Even with the advancement of new crystal growing techniques and sophisticated EBSD/OIM, it’s very challenging to grow the bicrystal samples and study them. On the other hand, modelling the GBs using computers and studying the atomic level interactions of atoms to interpret the properties has given a plethora of opportunities to researchers world wide. Numerical simulation techniques such molecular dynamics give us deeper insights into the material behaviour and properties. Accuracy of these models in predicting the properties depends on the inter-atomic force fields defined in the simulation as different potentials are derived from different theories. Molecular dynamics is such powerful tool to investigate energetics and thermal properties of the GB interfaces.
Si is one among the widely studied materials in the literature and is also an excellent candidate to study the thermal properties using molecular dynamics.  When the energy carrier such as phonon or electrons tries to traverse across the interface they get scattered at the interface offering a resistance to the flow of thermal energy. This is referred to as interfacial thermal resistance or kapitza resistance. Since there are no electron-electron interactions involved in Si unlike metals, modeling GBs using empirical potentials gives better approximation of the scattering behaviour at the interface. Experimental studies on five parameter character distribution of grain boundaries in polycrystalline Si shows that distribution of grains is non-random[\cite]. Based on the multiple random distribution of the grain boundaries we choose to study a few GB interfaces with <001> misorientation axis. So far no dedicated study has been made to understand the kapitza resistance at the interface. In this work we use Stillinger-Weber potential to calculate the kapitza thermal resistance as it captures the thermal properties better than Tersoff empirical potential.
In this work, we systematically study the kapitza resistance of 10 Si GB models with <001> misorientation angle. We geometrically construct the bicrystal samples with desired GB interface with the periodic boundary conditions and study using molecular dynamics simulations. The grain boundary energy of these interfaces is also calculated to examine its correlation with the kapitza resistance.

----------------------------------
<br>Last update:10-June-2020
<br>[Profile Page]()
<br>[Scholars Profile]()
<br>[LinkedIn Profile]()
